---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---
## Working Papers

**[The Direct and Intergenerational Effects of Criminal History-Based Safety Net Bans in the U.S.](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/SafetyNetBans.pdf)** with Michael Mueller-Smith, Kevin Schnepel, and Caroline Walker
<br/>*Revise and Resubmit at Journal of Political Economy.*
<details>
  <summary>Abstract</summary>
We study the lifetime banning, as introduced by United States Public Law 104-193, of individuals convicted of felony drug offenses after August 22, 1996 from ever receiving future SNAP benefits. Using a regression discontinuity design that leverages CJARS criminal history records with federal administrative and survey data, we estimate the causal impact of safety net assistance bans, finding significant reductions in SNAP benefit take-up, which creates unintentional spillovers to spouses and children and persist long after ban revocations occurred. While we observe limited changes to other adult outcomes, children's short- and long-run outcomes worsen, especially those impacted at young ages.
</details>


**[Multitasking, Incentives, and Police Officer Behavior](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/Reeves_JMP.pdf)**
<details>
  <summary>Abstract</summary>
I study the consequences of incomplete contracts in the high-stakes, multitasking setting of policing. In my context, highway patrol troopers face salient traffic enforcement targets, but must balance their effort on enforcement production with completing other non-enforcement responsibilities. While the enforcement target induces trooper effort, it simultaneously distorts trooper behavior and generates a range of socially suboptimal outcomes, including lower quality enforcement, disparities unwarranted on the basis of collision risk, and delayed completion of non-enforcement responsibilities. Given significant trooper-specific heterogeneity, I develop an approach to optimally assign troopers to locations that reduces the negative externalities produced by the existing incentive scheme. In contrast, alternative personnel policies which ignore this heterogeneity improve only a subset of outcomes.
 </details>

**[Measuring Discrimination using Natural Experiments](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/DiscriminationNaturalExperiments.pdf)** with Nikhil Rao
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>
Disparities between social groups (e.g., gender, race) exist at crucial decision points in many contexts, from hiring to policing. These disparities are difficult to interpret when unobservable factors vary by group. To overcome this challenge, we use a binary instrumental variable (IV) strategy that measures discrimination after adjusting for group differences in unobserved potential outcomes. Assumptions on selection behavior recover the distribution of potential outcomes for each group, which we directly condition on to bound or point identify discrimination. This approach broadens the set of opportunities to measure such discrimination since existing tools rely on randomly assigned decision-makers. We illustrate our methodology through studying racial discrimination in misdemeanor prosecution, the most common form of contact with the criminal court system in the United States. We use a difference-in-difference IV strategy generated by a budget cut that reduced prosecution rates in King County, Washington, but did not affect adjacent counties. Before the cut, we find no evidence of discrimination in prosecution conditional on unobserved potential recidivism. After the cut, minority defendants became less likely to be prosecuted than white defendants with similar unobserved potential recidivism. We find suggestive evidence that cases involving minority defendants were more likely to be lower quality, potentially due to disparities created in previous stages of the criminal legal system (e.g., arrests), and that prosecutors responded to the budget cut by focusing on high quality, less resource-intensive cases.
 </details>


**[Agency Incentives and Disparate Revenue Collection: Evidence from Chicago Parking Tickets](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/AgencyIncentivesRevenue.pdf)** with Elizabeth Luh and Benjamin Pyle
<details>
  <summary>Abstract</summary>
We leverage a sharp 2012 parking fine increase for failing to purchase vehicle registration to examine disparate ticketing patterns across enforcement agencies in Chicago. Using an event-study framework, we find that Chicago police increased their enforcement of car registration non-compliance in Black relative to non-Black neighborhoods, with no observed disparate response for non-police enforcement agencies. This disparity is unexplained by differences in non-compliance and is instead driven by departmental revenue incentives and lower marginal search costs in Black neighborhoods. Disparate enforcement also exacerbated existing gaps in financial instability, including increased rates of ticket non-payment and bankruptcy filings in Black neighborhoods.
</details>


## Publications
**[Gender Differences in Political Career Progression](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/CareerPathGenderGap.pdf)** with Ryan Brown, Hani Mansour, and Stephen D. O'Connell
<br/>*Accepted at Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization.*
<details>
 <summary>Abstract</summary>
This paper quantifies the gender gap in the returns to electoral success on the career progression of novice U.S. state legislators. Using a regression discontinuity design, we find that narrowly winning a state legislature election doubles the probability that a female politician will later compete for a higher-level legislative seat compared to narrowly elected male politicians. While the gender gap in the effect of local political experience on winning a higher-level election also favors women, it is not precisely estimated. The gender difference in the effect of winning a state legislature seat is larger when serving in positions that closely resemble the responsibilities and workload of higher-level positions. We conclude that the pathway from local to higher-level political offices functions at least as effectively for women as for men. Therefore, supporting the recruitment, funding, and campaigning of women in local elections can be an effective strategy to increase their representation at the highest levels of government.
</details>

**[Voting and Political Participation in the Aftermath of the HIV/AIDS Epidemic](https://jhr.uwpress.org/content/59/6/1769)** with Hani Mansour
<br/>*Journal of Human Resources*, 59(6): 1769-1794, 2024. *[Pre-publication version](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/AIDSMortalityAndVoting.pdf)*, *[Online appendix](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/AIDSMortalityAndVoting_OnlineAppendix.pdf)*
<details>
  <summary>Abstract</summary>
This study examines the effect of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and the public health response to it on political behaviors. Using data on elections to the U.S. House of Representatives and leveraging cross-district variation in HIV/AIDS mortality during the period 1983-1987, we find that, beginning with the early 1990s, exposure to HIV/AIDS mortality increased the vote share, voter turnout, and contributions made to Democratic candidates. The increased support for Democrats is larger in competitive districts. The results are consistent with HIV/AIDS mortality impacting cultural attitudes and leading to broader and persistent changes in voting patterns and political participation.
 </details>

**[JUE Insight: Condominium Development Does Not Lead to Gentrification](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094119022001000)** with Leah Boustan, Robert A. Margo, Matthew M. Miller, and Justin Steil <br/>*Journal of Urban Economics*, 133: 103524, 2023. *[Pre-publication version](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/CondoGentrification.pdf)*, *[Online appendix](https://jmreeves.github.io/files/CondoGentrification_OnlineAppendix.pdf)*
<details>
  <summary>Abstract</summary>
Many politicians and voters believe that condominium development hastens gentrification. Indeed, there is a strong positive correlation between the presence of condos in a neighborhood and resident socio-economic status. We leverage the introduction of municipal regulations to study the causal effect of condo conversions on neighborhood attributes. Cities that restricted condo conversions experience a persistent decline in the condo share of the housing stock, relative to their neighboring suburbs and compared to metropolitan areas without such restrictions, even at city/suburb borders. Yet, areas with a higher condo share due to local regulations do not have residents with higher income or education levels.
</details>


## Work in Progress
**Intergenerational Effects of Parental Job Loss in the U.S.**, with Andrew Joung *(Draft coming soon!)*
<br/> 
<details>
 <summary>Abstract</summary>
Leveraging administrative data from the U.S. Census Bureau, we investigate the intergenerational effects of parental job loss on children's long-run outcomes by exploiting job losses during mass layoffs. Our analysis focuses on the long-term earnings trajectories and criminal justice involvement for both displaced parents and their children. We provide the first quasi-experimental estimates of the intergenerational effects of parental job loss on children’s future interactions with the U.S. criminal justice system. Through our comprehensive data linkages, we explore various mechanisms, including changes in household composition, migration, children's educational attainment, the mediating effects of the social safety net, and the transmission of labor market opportunities through parent connections.
</details>

**Examining Interventions to Improve Outcomes of Justice-Involved Individuals**, with Nikhil Rao 
<br/>*FSRDC Project #2957.*  

**Long-Run and Intergenerational Effects of the Great Recession on Criminal Justice Involvement**, with Andrew Joung
<br/>*FSRDC Project #2854. Results undergoing U.S. Census Bureau disclosure review.* 
<details>
 <summary>Abstract</summary>
Using individual-level panel data from the U.S. Census Bureau, we exploit spatial variation in Great Recession exposure to estimate its effects on interactions with the criminal justice system. Using an event study model, we present the first quasi-experiment estimates of the Great Recession’s long-run effects on adults and its intergenerational effects on children. We explore various mechanisms, including changes in migration, earnings, employment, and educational attainment.
</details>




**Discrimination and Permissible Considerations in Bail Decisions**
  



{% if author.googlescholar %}
  You can also find my articles on <u><a href="{{author.googlescholar}}">my Google Scholar profile</a>.</u>
{% endif %}

{% include base_path %}

{% for post in site.publications reversed %}
  {% include archive-single.html %}
{% endfor %}
